Restructuring the Guidelines (#696)
zalando/restful-api-guidelines: chapters/events.adoc

errors. This can happen if they are processing events with an older copy
of the event schema than the one containing the new definitions
specified by the publishers.

The above constraint does not mean fields can never be added in future
revisions of an event type schema - additive compatible changes are
allowed, only that the new schema for an event type must define the
field first before it is published within an event. By the same turn the
consumer must ignore fields it does not know about from its copy of the
schema, just as they would as an API client - that is, they cannot treat
the absence of an `additionalProperties` field as though the event type
schema was closed for extension.

Requiring event publishers to define their fields ahead of publishing
avoids the problem of _field redefinition_. This is when a publisher
defines a field to be of a different type that was already being
emitted, or, is changing the type of an undefined field. Both of these
are prevented by not using `additionalProperties`.

See also rule <<111>> in the <<compatibility>> section for further guidelines 
on the use of `additionalProperties`.

[#246]

> == {MUST} use semantic versioning of event type schemas 

Reviewer: I'm not sure whether it makes sense to have this as a {{MUST}} rule – it's automatically done by Nakadi (as users can't set the version numbers themselves, they are set by Nakadi when updating the event type's schema).

One can argue that it would apply for other kinds of event registries, but we don't have any (and even if we had, those should also do it in a similar way).
We can keep it as-is for now, but maybe we want to introduce a different modal verb (or equivalent) for things which are done by infrastructure instead of by engineers?

Author: let's discuss this outside this Restructuring PR -- created an entry in the API Guild meeting agenda to follow up

    expected to be sent by the producer, other fields may be added
    by intermediaries such as a publish/subscribe broker. An instance
    of an event based on the event type conforms to both the
    DataChangeEvent's definition and the custom schema definition.
  required:
    - metadata
    - data_op
    - data_type
    - data
  properties:
    metadata:
      description: The metadata for this event.
      $ref: '#/definitions/EventMetadata'
    data:
      description: |
        Contains custom payload for the event type. The payload must conform
        to a schema associated with the event type declared in the metadata
        object's `event_type` field.
      type: object
    data_type:
      description: name of the (business) data entity that has been mutated
      type: string
      example: 'sales_order.order'
    data_op:
      type: string
      enum: ['C', 'U', 'D', 'S']
      description: |
        The type of operation executed on the entity:

        - C: Creation of an entity
        - U: An update to an entity.
        - D: Deletion of an entity.
        - S: A snapshot of an entity at a point in time.
----

> The Data Change Event Category is structurally different to the General
> Event Category defining a field called `data` as container for the custom
> payload, as well as specific information related to data
> changes in the `data_type`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Data Change Event Category is structurally different to the General
Event Category by defining a field called `data` as container for the custom
payload, as well as specific information related to data
changes in the `data_op`. 
```
(Unrelated to the restructuring, you can ignore if you think it needs discussion.)

Author: done

reason".

//========================================================================================

[[events-design]]
= EVENT Design

[#200]
== {MUST} ensure that events do not provide sensitive data

Similar to API permission scopes, there will be event type permissions
passed via an OAuth token supported in near future. In the meantime,
teams are asked to note the following:

* Sensitive data, such as (e-mail addresses, phone numbers, etc) are
subject to strict access and data protection controls.
* Event type owners *must not* publish sensitive information unless it's
mandatory or necessary to do so. For example, events sometimes need to
provide personal data, such as delivery addresses in shipment orders (as

> do other APIs), and this is fine.

Reviewer: _Not new, feel free to ignore for now. I'm just writing it down so it doesn't get lost._

Nakadi decided to not go with scopes for event type authorization in 2017 (instead using application-name based authorization), and I don't think they intend to change it ever, certainly not "in near future".
And there are plenty of event types which do contain sensitive data.
Do we want to adjust this rule?

Author: let's discuss this outside this Restructuring PR -- created an entry in the API Guild meeting agenda to follow up

side: an event has been processed successfully, but the consumer fails
to confirm the processing.

[#212]
== {SHOULD} design for idempotent out-of-order processing

Events that are designed for <<149,idempotent>> out-of-order
processing allow for extremely resilient systems: If processing an event
fails, consumers and producers can skip/delay/retry it without stopping
the world or corrupting the processing result.

To enable this freedom of processing, you must explicitly design for
idempotent out-of-order processing: Either your events must contain
enough information to infer their original order during consumption or
your domain must be designed in a way that order becomes irrelevant.

As common example similar to data change events, idempotent out-of-order
processing can be supported by sending the following information:

* the process/resource/entity identifier,
* a <<203,monotonically increasing ordering key>> and
* the process/resource state after the change.

A receiver that is interested in the current state can then ignore
events that are older than the last processed event of each resource. A
receiver interested in the history of a resource can use the ordering

> key to recreate a (partially) ordered sequence of events.

Reviewer: _Again, ignore this for now, I'm just adding it here so I don't forget it._

A third option (which I was made aware recently in a private chat) was an event-sourcing-like one:
* store all events when they come in, and process them.
* if events are detected as out-of-order:
   * roll back your state to some older safe state
   * reprocess all events from this point in the event order on.

(The order would likely be per-entity.)

Author: let's discuss this outside this Restructuring PR -- created an entry in the API Guild meeting agenda to follow up
